hello it's ruby and today i have got
another video in my back to school
[Music]
series
today i'm going to be giving some advice
on how to create
a good study space especially if you're
going into maybe year 10 year 12 and you
haven't had to
spend so much time revising previously
um i hope that this is going to be
especially helpful for anyone who has
online school this year and a
continuation of that because especially
if you're working at home
all day having a really solid space
where you can be productive
is so important and obviously everyone
is in completely different circumstances
and it's not going to be possible for
everyone to have
all of these things at once and even if
you can't get all of these
just trying to get a few of them should
help you to be more productive in the
new academic year
so for the purpose of this video i'm
actually going to be setting up a new
study space
using my old desk it's like this old
school desk that my dad rescued off this
bonfire pit when i was
like six years old and it was my desk
before this one and it's currently
downstairs
in the living room and i'm going to be
setting it up in accordance with this
advice you can see
step by step how to actually set up a
new study space
okay so the first thing that i would
recommend is making sure that there is
good
lighting of course it's important to be
able to see what you're doing when
you're studying
what i always say is if you can try and
get natural light so
try and move your desk to a window
because natural light is nice to study
by
i also really do think that there's
something quite mindful about being able
to work
with an outside view ahead of you
because it makes everything feel less
closed off and it just
makes you feel less isolated if that
makes sense so especially if you're
going to be spending
long hours at your desk i think having
it by a window is really useful
if this isn't an option then make sure
you have a good lamp
which is bright so that you can get good
lighting still when you're working
um and also the lamp is actually just
important generally for
when you're studying at night and
daylight obviously
isn't an option having a clean space is
key
so before you get started with anything
clean your desk
give it a good disinfect um you can
really feel the difference when you sit
down to a clean desk you can kind of
tell when it's dirty
whilst you're at it make sure to tidy it
regularly personally i tidy my desk
space
twice a day once in the evening and once
at around lunchtime and
i clean my desk maybe once every two
days but it could be once every five
days just it depends whilst you're at it
also clean your laptop or your ipad or
whatever
thing you use most often because like
the desk it will pick things up they say
that a clear face is a clear mind and i
really do think that this is correct
try and make your actual desk space as
minimal as possible so don't clutter it
up with
pen pots etc you know make sure that
you've got enough space to actually work
because at the end of the day that is
the main purpose of your desk
so we've got a clean space it's
disinfected it's tidy
the third thing we want to do is
actually equip it with the stationary
that we will need
what things will you need while you're
at your desk i recommend keeping all of
the stationary that you use on a regular
basis
really accessible so that as soon as you
need that highlighter you can just grab
it from your desk
like so you've got it if you need a pen
you can grab it
it's not something that you have to faff
around looking for because
the more opportunity you give yourself
to faff around and look for things
the more time you're going to end up
being distracted procrastinating you
want to minimize distractions
and i do think that having everything
easily accessible
is a great way to do this so make a list
of the things that you do use on a
regular basis
maybe tier it so tier 1 is things that
you use
every ten minutes tier two is things
that you use once a day
tier three are things that you use once
a week
or once a month and then you can develop
your storage solutions based on how
often you actually do use it so
i have pan pots for the pans that i use
on an hourly basis
then i've got a mini storage unit under
my desk for things i use maybe every
three hours
and then i have boxes for things that i
use
maybe once a week that i don't use very
often it also means that your desk
doesn't get too cluttered
if you've been watching my videos for a
while you'll know that i am a big
advocate for turning work
into play and i think one of the great
things about study space is you can help
to facilitate that mindset shift
just through your workspace i always
think it's key to
have a workspace that you enjoy being in
make it a pleasant space to be in make
it cozy make it comforting fill it with
your favorite things
um though not distracting things put up
candles to make it cozier
maybe put some wildflowers on your desk
maybe put a painting that you really
like some photographs
um i have this wonderful academic dark
academia mood board on my wall which is
filled with all of these things that i
love
and it does make me feel motivated like
having an aesthetic such study phase
where you want to be where you want to
spend your time
really does make the world of a
difference so do whatever you can to
make
make your space somewhere that you that
you like to be on the subject of candles
actually
i would recommend having a signature
candle scent
that you can burn in your room if you
can't use a candle then i'd recommend
just having like some sort of home spray
that you spray before you study
but scent memory is a thing like if you
can find a scent that you associate with
being productive and with studying with
your studies face and you light that
candle every time you feel productive
then when you do sit down and you like
that candle at the beginning of a study
session you are just going to
tell your brain that you're in that
productive mindset again actually on a
similar grain
if you can only use your desk space for
productive
things or like study related things
because our brains associate spaces
with activity for example when i sit
down at the dinner table i know that i'm
going to eat and so my brain expects to
be fed whereas when i sit down at my
desk my brain expects to work hard and
to study and to do something
productive and try not to confuse
locations too much
try not to watch tv at your desk for
example because that might disturb
your mindset approach to being at your
desk open
the window this is again part of having
a nice
studies face which is just pleasant to
be in
having fresh air always helps me to be
more focused
especially if it's cold actually i
actually find i work better
when it's cold one thing i always find
when i'm working is that random to do's
will like pop up in my mind or like
reminders things i need to remember
they're grappling for my attention and
they're saying really procrastinate just
like leave this task till later and go
focus on on me on this task and
it's so easy to get distracted by
something like that when it
comes to mindset you're gonna take five
minutes and you think i just really need
to get that done i might forget
so what i now do is i keep my master
to-do list
next to me on the desk whenever i'm
working and
then if something comes up i can quickly
jot down that to do when i designed this
to-do list i put it into like
work education chores health other
social so that
it would be really easy to organize
build to use a little better
if it's not the to-do list it could be
just a piece of paper where you just jot
down things as they come up
so that you don't let yourself get
distracted but that's a really good
thing to have in your studies
next thing is making sure that you have
your water bottle with you at your desk
and i always say water bottle not water
glass because obviously a glass could
spill i
learned that the hard way um all over
your notes or laptop or something so
just make sure you have a water bottle
but it is key to keep hydrated when
you're studying similarly having
snacks healthy snacks which are going to
rejuvenate your brain
are really key so i think it's a good
idea to plan your snacks ahead of time
when we're hungry we're more likely to
make bad quick decisions with the food
we eat it's easier to grab a packet of
crisps and
wash and cut off an apple or a carrot
and so
just having these snacks ready prepared
is is a good idea and
if they're not going to spoil in your
room then
literally just keep them by your desk so
that when you are hungry you can just go
ahead
and tuck in side note i
always find that i work better at a
white desk so if you're choosing
a desk color be mindful of which color
you work best on because i always work
best when it's
like a white surface next have a
playlist ready curated sometimes
there might be background noise like i
recommend having a few playlists
one for light revision that doesn't
require very much focus
one for more focused tasks i usually use
piano music classical music
and then one for really focused tasks
which is more background noise that
might be white noise that might be
lux does really good kind of background
study noise music
but if you have these just there and
ready you're not going to get distracted
too much when there is loads of
background noise you can just put your
headphones in and keep on working
i would recommend putting up a sign on
your door when you're studying
if you find you keep on getting
distracted by people in your family
so for me i always had my parents would
like always be coming into my room when
i was working
and so now i have a sign on my door that
says please don't come in i'm working
and so that means that they're last
likely
to come in when i'm studying and
distract me and then you can just turn
this over when
you're finished with your work so i hope
that you found this video helpful i hope
it will help you
as back to school approaches and i hope
that you have a productive week
[Music]
you